Let's move on to details and
make use of our API responses.
So we're gonna pop over to Details.js.
You can see there's already
some fun errors waiting for us.
We are going to rename
this to Details.tsx.
And now we get a ton of errors, right?
But here we are.
This is the game of
Whack-a-Mole TypeScript errors and
if you've written any TypeScript before,
this feels very familiar.
So carousel and
error boundary won't fix right now,
these won't get fixed
until we fix those files.
So just go ahead and
ignore those ones for right now.
Up here at the top, we're going to
import pet[API]Response and
Pet from our newly minted
./APIResponsesTypes.
Okay, one thing that we can do here
that makes things a ton easier,
we don't have default state for all of our
animal breeds, city, state, description,
name, images, all these things.
That's why this is so mad right now.
So if we just give it a default state for
all these different things,
then it's gonna know immediately,
okay, I already know what these are,
I don't have to retype them later.
Okay, so showModal, we got that false.
And again, I don't have to tell
it that loading is a Boolean,
it knows because I gave it true or
false, it's like, that's a Boolean.
So I'm just gonna give it
a default state for everything and
then it'll just know what they are.
So animal is just an empty string, but
we actually wanna type this a little bit
further, we wanna say this
is actually an animal.
Cuz we know it's actually one of those
enumerated types that we created, so
let's import animal up here well.
On line seven,
I also added an animal import.
So now, it'll make sure that animal stays,
bird, rabbit, reptile, and
doesn't end up being something else.
Okay, and then the rest of these,
we're just going to say breed,
empty string, city, empty string,
state, empty string,
description, empty string,
name, empty string.
And images,
we're gonna have it be empty array, but
we wanna tell it what kind
of array it's gonna be.
And it's a homogenous array,
right, it's gonna be just strings.
So we're gonna say as string[ ].
And now, notice all of these type
errors down here in line 36 are gone,
because now it knows
what all of these are.
Description, I know that's a string.
I know that images is a string array.
So that's pretty cool.
So that's what this as word means,
you're just basically saying,
I'm giving you an array, but
I'm actually going to give you something
even more specific than array.
It's an array of specifically strings.
Just general advice for working with
arrays in TypeScript, it's much easier
if you make your arrays homogenous,
right, so they're not mixed types.
I think in general, that's kinda how we
mostly operate cuz that makes sense to us
logically, but it makes it very explicit
when you do that in TypeScript.
It's possible to do other things, but
I'll suggest this where possible.
Okay, up here, We
need to type the props, right,
cuz this gets some props as well.
So we have Component here and we need
to give it some typing for its props.
So you can see up there on my tooltip,
I have P, which stands for props.
We can give it types for that.
We can actually give it the typings for
the state.
If I hadn't done this right here,
we'd have to give it typings for
the state, but the good news is we
don't have to because I did that here.
Same thing, if I gave it default props,
we wouldn't have to give
it props typings either.
But we don't wanna give it default props,
so we're not gonna do that.
Instead, we're gonna
give it these parameters.
And we're gonna say, you can expect
an object that's gonna have params and
that params might have an ID on it,
so id?.
Because we can't actually guarantee what
react router is gonna give back to us,
we actually have to be
defensive about that.
So we might get an id back, which is what
that question mark means, it's optional.
And if it does get an id,
then that's gonna be a string.
Now, I'll see people as well say,
interface Props,
or iProps, people like to put the i there,
I don't care.
But the I stands for interface, right?
And you can say params ( id?) string.
Some people will only do it this way.
I'll generally do this if
I have a lot of props.
When I don't have many props,
I'm quite lazy and
I'll just put it directly in there.
So I'm fine with whatever you choose
to do, we'll do it both ways.
So, I'll do it that way.
Okay, So here we are.
This here ends up being an any,
it's like I don't know what that is.
So any type is your enemy in TypeScript.
An any type is basically like,
this could be anything and I refuse to
tell you anything about it, which defeats
the purpose of TypeScript, right?
You want no anys in your
code as much as possible.
And we've actually turned it on so
that we say, don't allow any in here,
get that any business out of here.
So what we can do here is we can
actually wrap this in parentheses.
And then we're gonna say,
whatever this comes back as,
we expect it to be a petAPIResponse.
And now, we know that this what
it got back was a petAPIResponse.
Now, you can still technically
get runtime errors here, right,
because what happens if your
API changes shapes, right?
But that's just the nature
of computing systems, right,
we're not gonna solve that here.
Okay, That's fine, this is good.
This one's a fun one.
So window.location = blah, which I have
been using since literally I can remember
the first time I wrote browser-based code.
It's actually technically not the API.
It's a hack that I think they
threw in Internet Explorer 7 or
something like that, I don't know,
some ancient browser, and everyone's like,
well, I guess we're doing this now,
and that's why this works.
But technically,
the API is actually href =,
window.location.href =.
And now this works, because it's
actually using the correct API.
Okay, So
this is all looking much better,
we're getting far less errors.
UseParams here, you might just,
I expect this to be a, And
what I'm using out of this is I'm
going to get an id string out of this.
Okay, and then we know that we
expect to get id into here,
which is going to match up
with this type up here.
Cool.
Any questions about any of this?
I think at this point,
we are done with details.
Obviously, these two are still erroring,
but we'll fix those and
then this will stop erroring there.
>> Yeah, I have a quick question.
>> Yeah, please.
>> About, let's see here,
about that API call.
I know you're saying about competing
systems and the potential for
the shape of that object to change.
Is there any type of error
handling you would recommend to be
defensive about that?
>> Sure, this is an async function,
which means you can wrap it when
you call it with try catch.
So you could do it that way.
So let's say you just do try blah,
Catch e, right, and so on and so forth.
That would be the immediately
obvious way to do it.
The other thing that we've actually
technically already done is this is
wrapped in an error boundary, right?
So if there's an error here and
then componentDidMount,
it's actually gonna hit our
error boundary here, right?
And then this will show a nice page,
like there was an error on this page,
we're gonna redirect you
back to the homepage.
That's the react way of doing it.
But it's contextual to how you wanna
handle those sorts of situations and
how unreliable your system is, or,
I guess, what tolerance you have for
unreliability in your system.